# Intro to accesibility and inclusive design with Eric Bailey transcript

(This transcript was provided as communication support for deaf and hard of hearing people. It should not be regarded as a fully checked and verified verbatim record; it has no legal standing. Transcript by accredited Speech to Text Reporter -- Sheryll Holley). 

Date: Saturday 12th March 2022. 

TONY: Are we live now? 

ISABELA: I believe so, that is why I was talking, I can't see anything when I am sharing my screen, I am trusting your lives. 

TONY: I feel like every live event starts with "are we live now". 

ISABELA: Eventually we will get that better, it is an experiment, welcome, welcome, this is our third workshop. 

TONY: Yes, if the first two were an indication, it will about a great event and great to talk today. 

ISABELA: Very exciting, I know sometimes you want to leave time for people to file in, are we doing that and getting started? 

TONY: How many folks do we have now on Hopin? 

ISABELA: I can't see it either. Yes let's give another 5 minutes, it is great for the folks to be here but we will give a bit of grace to start with. 

ISABELA: Whenever I do the screen share, I think I must have a focus issue when I fully share my screen, my keyboard doesn't want to switch slides anymore. Have you had anything like that - it makes me nervous, I keyboard much more than my mouse. 

TONY: No, no, I never really had live demo problems with Google slides before, except when I have got multiple monitors then the slides become a problem. This slide is beautiful. I love the aesthetic you have been keeping with all of these slides. 

ISABELA: Thanks yes, I guess I will leave it at that.

TONY: Where is the colour scheme coming from? 

ISABELA: Kind of experimenting, indicative of Jupyter users, something like an off complimentary primary set, the opposite of orange is blue. We do it a lot, so we do it a lot. I brought in some yellow. 

TONY: It definitely warmed up the room. The heat made everybody is bit more comfortable. 

ISABELA: I love warm colours, I am a bit biassed. 

TONY: We have a captioner today, that's superexciting, congratulations for sorting that out. Thank you. 

ISABELA: I have a lot to learn with that. But definitely learning we will about getting better, I have been trying to write down what I learn, I do that for me, but I am hoping to be able to share with others, I was surprised when I looked for captioning 101, how do you find people and what do you ask for? I can't find help on this, does everyone secretly know? We are getting there. We are getting there. 

TONY: Right we will, today, I guess it is probably a good time to get started, hopefully we have got some notes to take as a group and learn a little bit more about accessibility, inclusive design with Jupyter. 

ISABELA: That sounds good to me, I think you are starting with the recommendation, welcome, this is intro, to accessibility and inclusive design, with Eric Bailey, I am excited to have you here for our third event. Three out of four. I hope we have returning people, and we are happy to have you here. Before we - there we go, before we get started, a few reminders by attending this event you are agreeing to the event Code of Conduct, if you made it this far, you will have clicked a reminder. The main speaker sessions, I don't think we can stop hopin from recording, but we won't about posting that. I like to make sure people know before they are being record. With that again, welcome again to Jupyter, whether this is your first event orbiting the planet, we are happy to have you, we want people with different skills here and it is a big place, so there is definitely a spot for you here and we will talk a little bit more about what to do with Jupyter and what you can do otherwise and Eric will give us foundations of knowledge that we are lacking a lot in the community. With that you know, there is a bit of a question, sometimes people ask me, why make Jupyter specifically accessible? Before Eric gets in a bigger talk for this, I want to get around foundation. So many web apps out there, so many different tools and things, why focus on making Jupyter accessible when there is a a lot of other things in the world. An answer, the planet is big, Wikipedia tells me the radius is 71, 492km. So we aren't the planet but Jupyter, the project, the software, we will the software projects and community is also quite big right. This isn't just a tiny project but like, how big is big? Because I can't measure our community in equatorial radius, about 10 million public notebooks book, that is the document we use. Keep in mind these are the public ones on GitHub, not all the notebooks in the world and this is from an NB estimate project, the links in the notes document. This number really, really surprised me. Similarly though, we have thousands of contributors, keeping this vague because it is difficult to track, how people are contributing and even more, there is so many different GitHub repos and places where we have code being active which is not the only means of contributing. Jupyter.org lists about 343repos, they are the official ones, that is not considering what I can be you know the community includes extensions right and it includes when people are just working on it right outside of the code. But, similarly, I couldn't find you know reliable numbers on the number of user, which is one of the most important measurements to me. I leave the question marks, this brings up concerns, I brought you all the numbers and things people are producing, but who are we serving in I worry, how many people are we excludeing? That is a big question we continue to have, who is writing these 10 million public notebooks and who is reading the notebooks and who is expected to read them? They aren't able to? Because we are not building a place where that is possible. So, that's the end of my Jupyter is big part, but Jupyter also home to many, many what? You know, I didn't even introduce myself, I am realising, but home to many, many programming languages right including Python is still the most popular notebooks from what I have heard. If we make notebooks accessible, they will about accessible to a lot of languages, this is not just fixing it for 1 person. Similarly this is not for one field of study. Jupyter is home to humanities and sciences I have met journalists who use Jupyter and physicists and people who have made our history flash cards in Jupyter, this is a tool that people are using in a lot of different ways. It means that right making that accessible is like right we are not just for example, like we are not just helping journalists, in accessible spaces or make accessible things, we are helping people in a lot of different fields and students this is a personal one to me. Jupyter is used in education and a home to a lot of students, there is expectations where people are able to do lessons and homework in this. I heard students say, this wasn't for me, I got tired of fighting with Jupyter tools to make work arounds and couldn't get them to work at all. Some manage them great and I think if we are focussing on education in this case, in many case this is the first step to a lot of other work, we are going to about ensuring a lot of steps further down the line, this is foundational level. Finally Jupyter is built on open standards, if you want a technical reasons, ethical reasons why we should be worrying about this. Jupyter is built off open standards when I asked people for advice, they didn't fit on the slides, so we will keep it vague. We have a habit of following practice that is are done, follow internationalisation standards and how to write document types to one another. What we don't do right now is consider any accessible focused standard right? WCAG is one of the first one, the web content ability guidelines and web content for what Jupyter S we don't use any other accessibility for standards, our interfaces could be building off a UI library that has accessibility from the start and we don't for example. That's my soap box, and for now, I will say, you know I told you why I think we should do this. Quick highlights of what we are doing right now, a few things happened we have had accessibility meetings for more than a year. That has been really awesome in coordinating community efforts and bringing new people on and similarly helped us work on WCAG based projects with related issues and pull requests to make changes. We have CDI - for grants right now, that is helpful in supports our volunteers with study CZI - this helped with contribution that is can be supported. The volunteers are superhelpful and they have done so much but it is a lot to ask of them to solve some of these big problems to be able to provide that support has been helpful in our efforts so far. I should probably - no, okay, I forgot my slides, great. We also though, future goals we have, adding automated tests, these are the kinds of things in Opensource we rely on to make a check box for viewing PR's like, okay, despite the limits of this, it is helpful. We want to make sure the file format is accessible as can be. This file is used across projects, across projects that are not official Jupyter ones, if that foundation isn't accessible then it is a little bit difficult to build on top of that infrastructure. We are building to update and I will prove documents, when we make these changes, they need to be recorded and making it accessible when we are finding issues with that. One future goal we want to get you more involved, that's why we are excited to have you here, we will talk more of this later. But I actually am going to do is pause because Tony, I talked a lot, a lot. Do you any thoughts, things you would like to add? 

TONY: I have nothing to add except that that, was one of the best introductions to Jupyter I have seen and I have seen many of them. I would like to hear more from the person who put together these slides, time to introduce yourself Isabela? 

ISABELA: Yes, I did that backwards, I am Isabela, my pronouns, she her, in terms of image description style things here, I am Latino woman, with hair that looks like I have a fluff file explorer dog on my head at all times. Wearing a sweater. Tony over here, I don't know, I say my like partner in crime in Jupyter efforts, you can introduce yourself. 

TONY: Sure, that's great. Hi, I am Tony, I am a developer, experience - I am experienced Jupyter contributors, I spent hours doing my hair sleeping, consider the bed a comb. I now we have people distributed over the globe here, good morning, afternoon, evening. 

ISABELA: Yes, we are doing things backwards, you start with that and then the details later I guess, thank you for that. In that case, I think we are ready to get excited for our speaker or pausing first Tony? 

TONY: Well, to give some grace to our captioner, let's just take 5 minutes or so, get Eric on stage and get ready and get into the talk I think? 

ISABELA: Yes, that works for me. 

TONY: Are the questions in the chat or audience, that folks need clarified? One last thing, Isabela, do we have a collaborative notes document? ISABELA: We do, I cannot access the link by sharing my screen, I left it in the chat or stop sharing and send it? 

TONY: During the break we will send it to folks. So in let's say, like, 53, 7 minutes before the hour we will get Eric on stage. Cool thank you. 

ISABELA: Welcome back. 

TONY: I think now is a good time to usher me off and bring Eric on and Eric and get going in another couple of minutes? Bye thank you. 

ISABELA: Oh bye, okay, wonderful transitions thank you. 

ISABELA: It is going we will, I am excited at least, I have the absolute pleasure of you here and introducing you. Yes, for anyone who may not know though, I am hoping if you registered for this event you are as excited as me. This is Eric Bailey, hard to summarise everything that has been, inclusive design advocate, speaker, writer of extremely blog posts that Isabela uses day-to-day and general excitement. Like, I just admire the scale of like all the different things I have seen you advocate for, not just design in the traditional sense or going to worry about development. I really admire his ability to work across where the lines are drawn on those feels. With no further ado and me andering from Isabela. I land over to Eric. 

ERIC: Hi, hello, just thank you to you and to Tony for having me here, it is an honour and privilege and I am really excited to talk about accessibility and inclusive design. I did want to say that pop of yellow is chef's kiss, just really nice. I think that should be carried forward. That you mentioned that you like key boards for transitions slides, I do as well. Guess what? That's accessibility! So yes I am going share my screen. Let's see. Can we flick over to the slides? Is that being displayed? 

ISABELA: Yes, I can see your full screen. 

ERIC: Wonderful I am going to pop over presenter view and fiddle around - no that's the wrong one. I am a professional! Alright. Are my slides showing full screen now? ISABELA: Yes, we see the browser top. ERIC: Lovely, I won't finish with that. I want to say the topics, the structures of how we view and interact with the world, that might challenge your world views. That's okay, and, you know, I kind of invite you to, if you hear something that kind of shakes you or makes you feel uncomfortable to sit with it in the talk and thinking why I am bringing it up in this context, I am striving to about better and about a good ally in the accessibility space, if there is something I talk about that I feel issue with, invite you to speak with me privately or publicly, I am trying to I am prove how I speak and how I write about inclusive design and accessibility. I want to learn from everyone's perspectives, that's the ground rules for this talk. A little bit about me. I use he/him/his pronouns I am working on design systems. I write for CSS-Tricks and smashing magazine. I contribute to the Mozilla, I live in Massachusetts in USA and you want to do coffee, look me up. I am stoked to be here, it is a a lot of fun. The accessibility projects is an Opensource community driven effort to make accessibility easier and there is a lot of of that in project Jupyter, it has accessible content and making mechanisms for people to feedback into the content and make it better for everyone. If you are not familiar, check it out, in particular it has a checklist we are really proud of that takes a lot of the accessibility guidelines and brakes them down to human readable ways to interpret them. I have also served as a freelance auditor for a company called Tenon which does automated accessibility, integrations as we will as manual audits. I say this to say that, often times individuals in the accessibility space are down played or looked at as not technical. What I am really hoping to communicate is, I do have experience in this space and when you perform an audit that has legal consequences, so, when you say something is accessible or inaccessible, you need to come correct because that has the ability to have I am pact on things like awe suits. I would like to not bury the lede here, I am not very good at notebook visualisation, graphing kind of stuff here, but, fortunately I am plugged into the accessibility community and I will be uncovering resources for people who are talented than me and this is a link to a GitHub with all the kind of url's and concepts I will be talking about in this talk. The url is on (on screen). The first is a post by Sarah LFossheim an intro to designing accessible data visualisation, it is an excellent crash course spoken in the language of people who do data Vis and I encourage you to reach out to them and what they have been doing. Chart ability, a set, by Frank, they are a power house. Hopefully this is not too much of a surprise, this is a star for figuring out yes or no, or what I am doing is accessible or not. Another interesting thing I came across, the Sonification tool kit, work done to convert digital things, often used in a charting context data vis context into audio tones which is a great way to communicate meaning if you for example, cannot see the screen. The other thing, you know, another Frank you know hit is a good list of dataviz accessibility resources, it is like awesome blank lists you will have seen on GitHub a lot. Breaks down and here is good stuff and niche things that are going out if you want to go through the link that they point out to. So okay, with that covered, I now ask you, what is accessibility? We are going to unpack this is a little bit. Accessibility is a civil right in the United States, many other countries have similar protections and in this slide save button photo of the capital crawl where disability advocates abandoned their mobility advices to overcome the step to say get to the capital, in protest of failing to recognise their status as disabled individuals and accommodation for them in society. It is iconic photo in disability spaces. The more you kind of explore this space the more this will come up. When I say civil right, I want to communicate the gravity of that phrase by which I mean, this is a level of protection that is equivalent to not being discriminated against for the colour of your skin or religion that you practice. So when you mentally think about this construct, put it at that level of significance. So, you know, what is accessibility? It is the design of products devices, services or environments for disabled people. That's a very deliberate statement by which I mean you figure out what somebody's accommodation needs are and you either proactively or retroactively change what you are working on to accommodate their access needs. I am camp proactive, I will talking about that a bit more. You might see the word accessibility put down to - the 11 characters between A and y. When I talk shop, this is a convenient abbreviation. Makes for an excellent hash tag that helps have the difference between accessible by way of approachable or accessible by way of access, in a public context like a library provides access to content if you do not have a lot of money. This speaks to digital accessibility which is helping people with access needs use digital content the way they would like to. How do we do this? What do we do? We will there is 4 major kind of temples. Perceivable. This is an interesting one, there is a lot of cultural as we will as physiological and considerations around how people see things, the most obvious one that comes to mind is colour contrast. If a value is too light against the background it is placed on, there is a chance that individuals with low vision either by I don't logical or environmental, for example, cataracts or the harsh glare of the overhead sun at noon, won't about able to read your content if they want read it, they can't know or take action on it. Then it is an access barrier. Operable, to manipulate the content. A great example. Typing text into a field or filter to do data. Most of us use the mouse and keyboard. My question S if you can't use our hands, how do you do that? Understandable is my personal favourite because I like UX design. Understandable is the ability to know what you are doing. You know, people are quick to jump to blindness when they think of accessibility on the web. But, the most prevalent disability condition in the world the WHO did a study on this, is depression and, depression is something that actually affects your ability to process and understand information. That's wild! You know that's one of those things that blew my mind when I read it also I am pacts things like multitasks, a lot of us do that with computer jobs and when we are quarantined and it is hard to unplug. Robust is the 4th and it is making sure that it works in different contexts, why you can read a news article and click that read more button and or sorry, reader mode button and the content shows up in a different way, why you can rotate your device and the content will adapt. It is a fun one. You might be familiar with the term inclusive design, it is a part of accessibility but accessibility isn't always necessarily a part of inclusive design. By which I mean inclusive design is an approach to creative accessible experiences whereas accessibility sometimes is only concerned with remediation, which is repairing access barriers that have been created. Inclusive design ask us to probe the context in which we live in society. You know, a big question it asks is, do you have a disability? If this was an in-person talk the party trick I like to use is, you know, do you wear glasses? You know? Congratulations, you either are you know farsighted or nearsighted and you have an assistive device you use to help you navigate the world. That is disability, normalized to the point in society where we don't question it. A way of looking at disability is a mismatch between an individual and their environment. This speaks to the social model versus the medical model. The medical model thinks of disability as a problem to be solved, where is the social model thinks about it as a way of experiencing the environment. By this I mean, you know, when we build a building with stairs, why are we building stairs? You can build an access ramp to help people with mobility devices enter into a building or we question why we build stairs at all and why don't we default to ramps? It is provoking stuff in my opinion. So again, you know, what it is all about is taking these artificial divided categories we think on things, questioning their roots and recontextualising them, I think that is pretty neat. A little bit of a history lesson, inclusive design is often kind of thought of as like hippy dippy design practice and there are aspect to say that. But it is an old idea. One of the first events that led to inclusive design thinking goes back to World War II, taking teenagers and getting them to fight wars for us and that's what happened. The military doesn't really care about feeling, it cares about outcomes. One of the things it was grappling with is that the cockpits and specifically the seats that the pilots were sitting in were not helping their pilots fly planes, and so they were like, okay we need to redesign our cockpits because when they fly them bad, they crash, crashing costs money and resources and we might lose the war because of it. They put a lot of time and money into it. The first approach, measured thousands of soldiers and took exacting measurements of their bodies and figured they could average it out and build something for this abstract model for what it was, it was a colossal failure, you can put straps and adjusters, so a pilot skitting down and strapping in, can move it around to make it comfortable for them. That is widely successful that is interesting, that is a good mindset about how to think about how you interact with digital experiences. I mentioned buildings earlier, inclusive design is kind of a sister to universal design, an architectural practice when you build a structure, how you ensure that access is carried through? Unlike software, buildings don't really get to get critical HotFixers in the way we understand them. With you get one chance to build a building so it is important to do it right. The other thought here is that buildings are changing now that the internet is getting industrialised, by which I mean, buildings provide functions they are showing up in a digital context instead. That's really important I used to potentially have to go a building to access a government form and now instead there is a website that does that. If I can't access that website, I can't get the form and I can't exist in the countries politics I exist in. The other thing is inclusive design is intersectional. Intersectionality is a concept invented by a black feminist scholars in 1989 and it asks us to probe your sense of identity, the idea that you kind of contain multitudes and that it is hard to analysis somebody from just one single context, a good way to think about this was how was the you know, the place that you were born into, the family that you were born into, the context that you kind of live in currently, how do they help shape your identities, how you behave in a professional context and with friends? Your hobbies, your religious beliefs all these things compound to make you as a person and you need to accommodate that if you are trying to speak about how people exist in the world and quantify it. So, you know, we kind of have a good background of accessibility and inclusive design, you are like no, seriously, how do we do this? These are the guidelines, I like them a lot. The first one to provide a comparable experience. That's basically people can accomplish what they want, without undermining the quality off the content, this is image alternate text, I still understand the reason the image was placed on the screen in the first place. Consider the situation, people do different things in different ways and you want to kind of map your experience back to how they are going to do their thing and really good example of this is, being able to rotate your iPad to a landscape format because there are circumstances where you might have motor control disabilities that are so severe, you need this device mounted to your wheelchair at all times in this orientation in order to navigate the world. About consistent. You know, a good example here is, it is kind of wild that you can click on links on one website, and then go to another website and click on links and they do the same thing, even though they look different. The reason for that is external consistency, things that look like the things they represent behave across different experiences regardless if you control them or not. If you want to borrow the check marks they should have the check symbol. Give control. This speaks to agency, this is another one I really like. I mentioned reader mode before. You go to a news website to read the article, the type is too small, auto playing video, that distracts you, maybe the colour contrast is too low. Press that reader mode button and that pulls up a screen you able to modify the type, coslum, strip away distractions and work in a way that works for you. Then offer choice. Again, people do different things in different ways. You know, when we start to fall off the beaten path of usability you want to give them multiple ways to go about doing a thing, a good way to think about this one, your email clients ability to bulk edit it is email. You can swipe through each one and delete it. That stinks, if you have muscle fatigue, crack open a bulk edit mode and apply a delete function, you can have a phrase that deletes all email. Then you know, prioritising content seems obvious, but, it is definitely worth stating, make the main thing of the things you are looking at, make I obvious and clear to understand. Finally we have add value, which is consider why you are making the things you are making and how does that I am prove the experience for the people that are using your content? This is a weird one to wrap your head around, a cool example I love is, you can turn on voiceover the screen reader on your iPhone and swipe and tap and swipe and tap to activate the camera, to flip it around so it is looking at you, ios has the ability to announce when it thinks it is looking at your face and you can take a picture. That is a lot of value work, value teaches us you can tell Siri, hey take a sell fee and it turns it around and takes a shot. That's thinking about the value of the features you have. Vinegar and honey, two ways to think about stability, I am team honey but we do need to understand vinegar. People sue for access issues. They are very right to do it. This is a civil right, the inability to access digital material represents exclues and internalise it. I would like to say that, that now, private organisations can and are getting rightly, having lawsuits filed against them for access issues because as I mentioned earlier, more and more services are going on-line and it is important that we, as a population are able to do that, regardless of our circumstances or abilities. On the honey end of things, a study was conducted and found that a failure to accommodate disability represent as potential $490 billion in revenue, that is amongst disabled working age adults in the U.S. This shook me the first time I read it. I do want to remind you of kind of the bias that you make when you think about disability immediately going to a blind person and the screen reader, when you look at disability, that includes people with anxiety, depression, people with ADHD which is distributed across our population a bit more than you think it is. The other cool thing on team honey is a lot of technology is that is normalized in our everyday lives actually is born of assistive tech. So, the keyboard that you use to register for this event and the one you use everyday to do your job. This is it's great, great, great, great Father, this is the writing ball that was used in a school for deaf mutes, this turned into a thing that is slapped on the bot of your laptop right now. Again how we do this? Cool, a lot of theory, now we will talk about approach a little bit. First off I want to say, do not use accessibility overlays. This is a recent development in accessibility circles and they are products that promise to "fix" access issues on your website automatically by way of you know, again, "automated AI driven solutions" it is honestly, most of these teetering piles of ableist assumptions and mapped back to "if" statements and there are many cases of these overlay vendors getting sued for not promising, for not delivering what they promise, there is a website overlay fact sheet.com that gives you context for this. It is a predatory marketing practice, these companies are profiting off disability threatening lawsuits. It is grows and slimy, I don't like them. If you have one on your site, I advise you to remove it and write out the next of your contract and do not renew. The real power of creating accessibility experience starts in the prototyping phase, to that point, I would like to talk a little bit about shift left methodology, when you have an idea, you then commit to spending time and energy in materials and resources to create a solution in this case a product. And if you don't consider accessibility, when you factor this in, someone releases this, you need to tackle this entire experience as a whole, pouring out and figuring out where access barriers are present. Shift left methodology, encourages us to take that and have inclusive design considerations as early as possible in your development process. So you know, if you are proposing a feature, how does that feature map back to assistive technologies and different kinds of ways of experiencing the world, who is present in the room. Who isn't present in the room and why and what are you doing about it? That save as lot of time and effort down the line, one of my favourite ways to go about doing things. To that point it is okay to acknowledge that you live in a bubble, as long as you are cool with the idea that you do know that you are there, so I encourage you to test your ideas early and often with a diverse range of people and backgrounds within that people with self reported disabilities and then to keep testing after launch. A lot of people kind of do one test and then check it off and assume it is good forever and the real truth is, experiences grow and change and evolve and it is good to kind of keep testing your underlying assumptions to make sure they still continue to work. To that point I would like to talk about another World War II things, another inclusive design, that is survival bias. Here again we are going to air force, planes were going out and getting shot up and you know, either crashing or coming back. Again the army or the military doesn't really care about soldiers per se, it cares about surviveable and cares B-tree ability to keep its planes operational for as long as possible, in the combat theatre and in terms of having planes to maintain superiority. When planes were going out and coming back with bullet holes, this is a problem, how do we stop these bullet holes and the planes staying up longer. First, we will slap on armour where the bullet holes are. That is where the shots are landing and reinforce them. The surviving plane count didn't go down. The point of survival bias is, you are only seeing the planes that made it back. They reconfigured the armouring to put them on places where the bullet holes were not present. That increased the survival. How this translate to say a digital context, you are only seeing the people that manage to make it through. By which I mean, who is present on the web? Why? How are they able to get there, how are people not able to get there? Who is present in project Jupyter, how are they able to get there? Who is present and who is present in this presentation? You know, we are, you know, people who use assistive technology, able to operate the sign in buttons and navigate to be here today. I am not sure. Another thing from a design context that I think is valuable, even in a dataviz, what is persona? People are complicated and want things, by attacking your problems and the kind of questions you want to answer with visualisation, not necessarily like who you are caring to as a person, but what they want, and then breaking that apart stead of creating a hypothetical omni person. A good way to think about the criminal schism is, these are at tributes shared by Prince Phillip and Oz BT Osborne, 70 years old and married and, they own real estate, like to take vacations, both like dogs. Also like to talk about the limits of empathy and empathy sa term you will hear from design places, this is a tough one to unpack, so, the go-to story I have for this is the experiences in 1956 of Nari who was an aboriginal elder, he was patrolling his territory and his first experience with modern western culture was an atomic bomb test detonation. His first contact with western white civilisation was 7 years later and this is a stress test I think for the concept of empathy, because there is realistically no way for us as contemporary computer using individuals to understand the totality of experience of seeing an atomic bomb detonation without the context of honestly modern war fair and the need for an atomic box. So, that's the extreme version but what this is kind of getting at in a contemporary context is, being cognizant of lived experiences and how they are different from your own. So, instead of empathy, I encourage sympathy which is knowing that you don't know the totality of somebody else's experience but being able to do something about it. By which I mean, you can turn on a screen reader, you can use it to kind of navigate, read a few articles about the basic interaction modes and also turn it off when you are done and see the screen when you are using it and that's not always reflective of the realities of a disabled individual and has been blind from birth and has a different way of going about things. This is for a country called Fable I am a fan of them. They do usability testing by way of disabled individual who is are daily technology users, so, you know, something that you think is technically accessible, there is really a usability angle to this as we will. Does it make sense? Is it pleasant and easy to use, if not, how you quantify that, they help you with that. Now shaking your first and how we do this? We need code I say to you, I won't give you code because I don't know how to write notebooks, but I can point you towards resources and hopefully some of them in the slide notes will help with that. When you are approaching design, design facing objectives of development, one of the most important things you can do is to use plain language, use simple concepts this helps for a general public audience but also helps for people that are really you know, industry insiders who know all the jargon and all the insider base ball. It is less mental work they have to do and we have quantified this, it is called the task load index and basically speaks to the harder it is to understand, the more work you have to do and the more it I am pairs your cognition for understanding what you are being shown. So when you do have the fancy infographics are gigantic and impressive with lots of nodes flying around, what does that mean? Why are you communicating it that way, can you break it down to something simple to understand? Can you have the fancy state as something you can enable? Is it really necessary for the point you are trying to get across? You can also refine your user experience. Does your architecture make sense, how you get your flows to get there, does that make sense and it feel rocky? Do you open the door to get a nice restaurant and is it a segway to sit at a table or someone sneak behind you and kick you in the rear and thrown out into the streets. Heading levels are important, help to provide overall context on what is on a page and why. It is important to use them. A logical page structure, don't beat around the bush, try to say what you are trying to say. Use generous negative space, this helps low vision individuals understand the boundaries of stuff. So what is connected to what? What is deliberately not connected to what? Focus indicators, another thing I am big on. If you can't use a mouse, you need to see what is selected to take action. You need a loud bright focus indicator - this is the thing you need. The other thing, place important actions higher up. What am I here for? How can I do it quick, I am not fighting the interface. Typography is also often overlooked. Get a good font like, make sure that it has the ability to support multiple language, people might be translating your content without you knowing or providing a mechanism for that. Does your font have cliffs support that? Restrict the fonts use, there is a correlation between income and disability, there is a chance that somebody might be on a feature phone. With a feature phone, speaking in generalisations, comes with a data plan, louding 12 fonts, why? That might be eating into somebody's experience to access the web for the sake of vanity, which is not great. Limit your type treatments, you can do a lot, but you want to keep it simple. This helps people understand the content that you have and make correlations these are heading treatments, I get it. I know how this works right now. Don't underline non-link content and conversely, just underline your links it is fine, nobody cares about your sense of aesthetics, keep it going. It is great. Then, when you make type size adjustments make them predictable. I like the browser to use plus and minus to do this, that handles it for you, if you do have text size adjusting widgets don't make it jump weirdly. So pick a ratio and stick to that, so people can kind of understand type size increases where the content is going and why. Colour, colour I think is pretty important. The most important one here is you know, watch out for those lighter values, if I can't see it. I don't know what is going on and I can't use it. A fast follow we hind that, don't rely on colour to convey meanings. If I can't see red, I am not going know what you are trying to say with a red value. If you slab a icon and text label that says invalid input. Colour has connotations, so for example, the Chinese stock market uses red to indicate good and the green to indicate bad. Being aware of the audience you are serving and why is helpful. Again more in the immediate, if you have a complicated background, say a hero photo, don't place text over it or if you do, give it a solid colour background, to help differentiate between the background and foreground. This is important for individuals with low vision. Then, a limited colour pallette. We have literally millions of crayons to pick from, if you stick with a restrained set of colours, that helps on the cognitive aspect to understand, okay, blue means things I can click on to do stuff. Red means things that are bad. Grey means it is static test I can read and that kind of thing. Forms and input. Every input needs a label that provides an instruction, assistive technology can hook into, to operate it. When you have required fields mark them as obvious. Ideally you don't have optional fields - don't use jargon for your error messages and make it really easy to understand where things have brokened and why and what you can do about it. Group things that are relatedthat you ask in 2 sections, if you do long form tasks consider dividing those as well. Handling one big concept perfect page, that helps people understand kind of how much they need to do and remaining. The other thing is, you know especially for motor control issues like, don't ask for redundant info, if you know somebody's name, capture that, if you need to ask them for it again, don't, you already have it. Don't make them type it in again. Submit content, put it at the end make it obvious you don't want people submitting half filling form information or failing to understand the totality off the task that you are giving them. Some assistive technology can slice up the page and interact with different kinds of content in different ways, placing it lasts communicates that the stuff before it is required even though they haven't seen it yet. Your media, so complicated interactions can usually about broken down into atomic bits which are easier to quantify and provide accessible labels for. For media, make sure you can access it in multiple ways. Captions, for live or recorded content. Shout out to our captioner who is providing that at the moment. Don't autoplay animations and provide a pause button. Vestibular conditions, the animation might be severe enough to give them a negative experience, including migraines, vomiting and that is for the curiosity of trying to use the things you made. Make sure everything is visible if you zoom your page up to 400% that will accommodate those who require screen magnification, so they can keep and trucking and do what they came here to do. With that I would like say thank you, hopefully this was helpful to you. You can check out the resources at the link here (on screen) website is Eric Bailey design, my email address (on screen). You can find me on twitter and other social media spaces at Eric W Bailey, if you have questions on the content covered I would be more than happy to answer them. If you would like kind of some help getting introduced where to start first with accessibility efforts, I would be thrilled to help point you in the right direction. So thank you again. It has been an honour and privilege to speak with y' all today. 

ISABELA: Hello, yes, I am back! Thank you so much for that talk! 

TONY: That was so cool. 

ISABELA: Tony - anyway. Yes, that was oh so exciting. I know, like I appreciate you with the start saying right, I don't have as much notebook experience, I don't want you to underestimate the importance of bringing us information that we lack in our community. 

ERIC: I am not smart enough for Jupyter! 

ISABELA: I wouldn't say it is a matter of smart at all. I do not have the confidence that many of the people I work with in notebook spaces have skill with that. So I, I probably don't have the quite the same experience but, very useful yes. 

ERIC: I came, had a few journalism jobs and it like, I am not unfamiliar with the content, it is actively used in the journalism data visualisation space. So like it is cool to kind of connect with them. 

ISABELA: Yes, that's awful to hear, no, I was just so excited and like thank you for your flexibility scheduling. Tony you were saying something, go ahead? TONY: I hope my audio is working again. That was a supercool talk, not about so much being smart but the stories to communicate. The notebook has been an amazing opportunity for me to enhance my cog anityive thinking skills and where my needs lack. Once you communicated to us, it is fabulous and the advocacy work is very important. It all goes hand in hand, all fighting in the same direction. 

ERIC: Yes, I do think that like, you know, I am not antidatavis, there are very complicated concepts you know, that sometimes an infographic or dataviz is the right choice, that ties into my access concern, here this sources to feed into it and how you arrange that information in a way that tells a compelling narrative I could write 5,000 words and maybe do it or here is one graphic! 

TONY: Increasingly the challenge is actually that you have to use both of them together, they are incomplete and when we talk with Frank and start thinking about the document as 1 story. We spend time thinking of one visualisation at a time. It increases the complexity, some of questions we find ourselves asking in our work, do the principles apply because we have so many affordances within the system itself? 

ERIC: I have a spicy quote for you if you want? 

TONY: Yes please. 

ERIC: The web content accessibility guidelines are the floor and not the ceiling. I think you have just caught on to that exactly, which is like they are geared mostly for traditional document based web experience and they are really good at kind of die secting that, but what Frank and y' all are exploring, it is unchartered territory, great you are questioning the boundaries of this. 

ISABELA: It is great to hear you say that, I wonder if I am not searching in the right places for resources, I am missing it? So yes. There is a lot we can draw from that, has been the case. A lot of the time we are looking for the same experiences we are advocating for, in terms of, we don't want to make people sick. We want to make sure people can navigate. It is a matter of how with the infrastructures and the experience? 

ERIC: It is an opportunity here where like, you know, I am preaching to the choir I feel. But like it is an opportunity to lead by example. It is unchartered territory and the like the contributions you can make back you know, not only help everyone but also help reinforce your authority in this space. The other thing that is like very interesting to me about accessibility in a nerdy way is, when you create program mat I cannily determinal meaning, your information is quantifiable and like you know, guess what technology likes is bits of things that it understand that you can do stuff to, like machine learning, like, kind of a one-to-1 transfer rans. 

ISABELA: Yes. 

TONY: Yes, so we have, in Jupyter, there is this interesting challenge where we can only about accessible, since we have extensions and anybody can put whatever they want in our documents like we only get to control how it opens the corridors to the building, interested in the way you talked about architecture earlier and almost how this accessibility stuff becomes a nonmaterial architecture, but, even in software like, to that point where you are like, hey, you don't get to HotFix a build. If you have a very big piece of software and accessibility wasn't considered at the fore and the codebase has grown, then you are challenged. The best advice we have seen is start over. That is not right at this point! 

ERIC: Yes, I didn't have it on the talk, this is another thing I am trying to work through. Which is like, one of two ways you can realistically as a digital person, who makes stuff, encounter accessibility, one is like a positive experience like this, hopefully a positive or a negative experience like a lawsuit and again, like, people are right to sue. Not questioning that, but it sucks because you are getting dinged for something you didn't know about before for something that you probably put a lot of effort in that just leaves a really bad taste in my mouth. If you are looking for something to do about that? A lawyer wrote a book called structure of negotiation. I love it. Instead of taking an adversarial approach, work with these institution to figure out, how can we work together to not bring the lawsuit hammer down? I love that it completely recontextualises the conversation, away from us and them, how can we get what we need and like these are for large like, international conglomerates and not like mam and pap shops, it is an effective strategy and I am a big fan of it. TONY: It is so close for Jupyter, it is such a driver in the education sector, as millions and millions of people use these things and we exclude more people. Not only that used in all the countries, so yes, we are an international organisation at this point with you know, international effect but, yes it is a big problem, big challenge. 

ERIC: Yes, the other thing is, is like, like I definitely struggle about this. You can't fix everything all at once, if you are in the accessibility game, I hope you like the gratification because it is kind of clean as you go, lots of little positive change, you know in the things you make but also the cultures that you participate in. You can't "fix it" all at once or nor fixing it the right way to think about it? Like what can you do while you are at the moment so you don't have to go back after your push it up to have to go back and fix it? "Fix it". 

ISABELA: I completely agree. That is how we are working with, how we get the culture of these contributions to start happening? That is something I found, I haven't found, negotiating that with an Opensource community, a lot of conversations, "require developers to do" but I don't require anyone to do anything really. That's a good point. 

TONY: Oh no, after you, you are the guest! Okay, that's fair. Yes, so one of the things I noticed that like going, we are trying to meet the community and grow our effortses but, there is a big dislike for automated testing and I appreciate that. But Opensource we have a hard time with getting manual testing, we will get it there, it is automating test, it seems like the only way to get accessibility into our Opensource processes is for the manual testing we have got to build the floor almost and hopefully compliment the manual testing later on. 

ERIC: I want to say I love automated testing. Yes, Tania said the stick and the carrot, that's in the chat. Yes. Yes like, automated testing is wonderful for a few reasons, but also, it covers only like very general terms 30% of access issues, but when you hire someone to do auditing what they don't want to do, that 30% time on things that could have been progress mat I cannily addressed. I love CID checks it helps to normalize thinking about accessibility as a concern. So, you know, if the robot is yelling at you that your code is bad, like, developers, they already understand this and they are working towards a standard and it also is a robot and not a person going we will, did you do this? Because that is not a good way to make friends. It puts an accessibility person in the position of being fun police. 

ISABELA: Yes. Can I say, we have a few minutes before we go to break out rooms. Quoting Mars Lee, you put a strong emphasis on civil rights and lawsuits, do you feel like there is a difference in how a client from a government or education differs from a client from a private company? Do you think in a way, governments - does more vinegar work out? 

ERIC: There's a really good question. 

ISABELA: It is a big question alright. 

ERIC: There is a landmark case, it is a blind individual who sued dominos pizza for the inability to order a pizza using their app. It was ruled in the Supreme Court that this was a violation of his civil rights and people don't know the web content accessibility guidelines they know they can't use something. Was this person right to sue because he couldn't get pizza from a private organisation? Yes, because, this organisation is larger than a government like you can order pizza from dominos in foreign countries. If you can't get pizza just by you know accident at birth or circumstance like that is discrimination. So, I like to lead with honey because I like people feeling excited and empowered to effect change in a positive way. But it is important to understand that all of this positive messaging stems from exclusion and discrimination and societal bias and sometimes you do need to communicate that and there are certain people in this world who will not about placated by pleas to doing good unfortunately. Those are times when you do need to remind them like, this is discrimination the same way like, firing somebody for being Muslim would be discrimination. The government's role like, the interesting thing to say here, is they are more cognizant of 508. A lot of government services particularly smaller governments of cities and towns are not accessible on the web and that really stinks and it breaks my heart because, you know especially in while we are all quarantined if I can't renew my drivers licence on-line, I have to go to a building to do it. Does that building have the access requirements I need to get in there? While I am sitting there mar mating in everyone's breath, I am imunno compromised - so, like, that's why these laws exist in my mind. 

ISABELA: I like when you answer these questions, you do a good job giving concrete examples, this is no exception. Thank you. 

ERIC: I hope I answered it? 

ISABELA: I don't know whether it is answerable in a few minutes? If you want to shepherd us to discussion Tony now? 

TONY: I think so we will take like, we will open up the rooms and get the discussion going. If anybody needs to take a break, the discussion will be happening, get going in 5 minutes. 

ISABELA: Yes, we can do that. 

TONY: Anybody needs to take a rest or anything, thank you Eric for that, that was a wonderful and thoughtful way, this main event we appreciate you. 

ERIC: Thank you. 

TONY: We will meet you over in (Swap to hopin) 

*Breakout rooms are not recorded.*

ISABELA: Okay, hello for anyone still in the stage area, I know some people are still in break out rooms but in case anyone is still on stage. I want to make sure I am not leaving you hanging but getting ready for our good-byes, a few last shares of who you can follow-up and join us next week. We will get to that, let me share my slides for all of you. They are over here, cool. That should be it. Okay, as I mentioned, we are wrapping up this event. We still have one more event upcoming and accessibility events in general are something we are going to do. We have feedback available, it is also linked in the notes, so if you have any thoughts on this, I believe it is 5 questions, how was the audio? What is your expectations, feedback, especially if you are having trouble in accessing we rely on feedback to make these events more accessible. I also mentioned upcoming events, next week, March 19th, Saturday same place, we will have a sprint where we are auditing Jupyter space and give you tools of how to audit, whether that is you auditing or other people's work, get better understanding what the he can peckations are. These are reasons to come, it is public and free, so excited to see returning faces or bring your friend, with he need space there. Larger than that, we have monthly Jupyter community calls, these are not exclusively focused, they are a great way to engage in the community. If you have been around Jupyter and I meet a lot of people in the community calls and they have projects and that is on March 29th and I can link the community calls calendar event after once I get back to the chat. Finally, I mentioned we would love you get you more involved in Jupyter, yes, community is a great place to get overview. If you are looking specifically for accessibility work, start on the Jupyter discourse, that is our non-codebased form, they have an disability tag on there we have a cross project, if you want to work on this, do this, kind of by starting there, these are links in the notes document already. We also have JupyterLab accessibility meetings, even though it is for the interface, we have people from across projects. It is easier to name it that. But a lot of the problems are shared throughout the project. There is awesome people at that meeting and finally, big thank yous, I know we have said thank you a lot. If there is anything to say, thank you is a big one to overdue. Thank you to Eric, so grateful we have been able to get awesome speakers with different perspectives, that is great for furthering our communities knowledge and understanding there is not a single way to do accessibility right or to work on it. I want to thank the event team, Tony and Tania helping us, it has been a long adventure and happy to present this event to you. Thanks to the Jupyter community building committee, that is a formal group that backs up these events and they have workshops sponsors in this case, Bloomberg and... we want to thank NumFocus they are our mediator, thanks to the team that wrote the event proposal, I was able to pick it up later on and I am grateful they helped to write this and get this started. Otherwise we wouldn't about able do these events. With that, about free; I hope you have a great rest of your weekend and thank you for taking the time to attend this. I hope to find you at next week's event or in future Jupyter orbit. Thank you. 
